concept: generics (#391)
exercism/elm: exercises/concept/story-name/.docs/introduction.md

# Introduction

> Generics are a way of writing code that avoid duplications of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generics are a language feature that enable code reuse and advanced type patterns (which are explained in a later concept).
```

For example, it should not matter what type a list holds in order to compute its length.
That is why that function uses a generic type parameter `a` in its type signature.

```elm
length : List a -> Int
```

## Type parameters in types

- single type parameter used once
- single type parameter used multiple times
- multiple type parameters

## Type parameters in functions

- as input
- as output
- as both input and output
- parametric polymorphism VS ad hoc polymorphism VS subtyping polymorphism

## Higher order functions

- basics of higher order functions: dependency injection.

> - common patterns accross container types (map, andThen, etc.)

Reviewer: Maybe add this to the learning objectives?

## Enforcing compile-time constraints with phantom types

In most cases, type parameters are introduced to enable genericity.
This is what happens when the type parameter is present on both sides of the equal sign `=` in the type definition, as in our `Maybe` definition.

```elm
-- the type parameter 'a' is present both on the left side
-- and on the right side of the equal sign '='.
type Maybe a = Nothing | Just a
```

We say that the type parameter `a` is bound to some data inside the type definition.
In certain cases however, the type parameter only appears on the left side of the equation.

```elm
type Distance unit = Distance Float
```

In the definition of `Distance` above, `unit` is a free type parameter, not bound to any data in the type.
We can also call this technique **phantom types**.
It is surprisingly useful when we want to enforce constraints at compile type.
For example, we want to make sure that we only add distances of the same unit.

```elm
-- The module does not expose the internals of Distance,
-- but instead two constructor functions: meter and foot.
-- We do not want to expose 'Distance(..)' because we do not want

> -- people outside this module to access the internals of Distance.

Reviewer: I might word this bit slightly differently. The main thing with opaque types is that you can't create an instance of a type directly, you have to use one of the exported creator functions.
